1.In oops how does abstraction differs from encapsualtion?
In oops,abstraction is hiding the certain details and showing essential data only
and encapsulation means wrapping the data.




2.difference between Is-A Relationship and Has-A Realationship.
Is-A relationship is like parent and child relationship 
  In,Is-A relationship child class extends parent child and stronger in nature
  Has-A Relationship is the instance of the class,and also called as Association.
 in this there are types as - Aggregation(weak has a relationship) these are independent.
                            - composition(strong has a relationship)these are dependent.
   Is-A relationship is stronger as compared to Has-A relationship.




3.why java doesnot support multiple inheritance?
Java doesnot support multiple inheritance through classes but it can be acheived through interfaces,
  because Ambigiuty problem occurs in this so java classes will not support multiple inheritance.




7.difference between equals() method and equality operator(==) in java?
 equals() method will compare the two strings in the class as both the address of the string or both the strings are in same nature are not
but where as equality operator(==) will only check if both the objects are equal or not.
ex:obj.equals() - will check if the given string is belongs to obj or not.
ex:a==b - will check if a and b are of same values r not.


8.how can we create constants in java?
  In java,constants are created and these constants should be in capital letters.
  ex: MAX_CAPACITY;



9.difference between public,protected,private modifiers in java?
 private:private is used within the class but not outside of the class,when we can declare any variable as private we cannot access outside of the class.
 public:public is used within the class and outside of the class and also out side the package,we can access through out the project.
 protected:protected is used within the class and outside of the class but not outside of the package because it is protected can access within package only.




10.define wrapper classes in java?
  wrapper classes can convert primitive data types into object and object into primitive data types.
  



14.what is marker interface?
 marker interface: the interface having null block without any statements in the method is called marker interface.
 ex: public interface student{
       
         }
    the student interface having no statements with empty block is called marker interface.





15.final keyword in variable,method and class.difference between final and static.
   final keyword is used in methods,variables and classes.
   final variable:when we declare a variable as final then we cannot change the value is called final variable.
   final method:when we declare a method as final is known as final method.
   final classes:when we declare a class as final is called final class.

   final keyword is used to do the variable ,method, classes as final then we cannot access these variables ,methods,classes with other,
   but when we declare as static the value cannot be changed throughout the program runs.





  
  




































